Hello and welcome back to the course on
Tableau. In today's tutorial we're going
to quickly look at some of the new
additional new features in Tableau 10.
So in this whole section we've already talked about
some really cool updates and upgrades
that Tableau has experienced and now
let's just have a look at some of the
other ones. So to start off with
here's an article about how the Tableau
team came up with the new color palettes?
As you have noticed, if you've worked in
Tableau 9 before, the previously the
color palette looked like this, so there's a
more Crayola type of colors and now
they're much more subtle and much a
softer I would say and there's a whole
article on how they picked out these
colors. You'll notice some really cool
visualisations here and you'll notice
that they explain how they created this
tool to look through the dimensionality
of the colors and specifically they talk
about. So it's just an interesting read
specifically talked about how colors are
positioned on this XY axis and also the
distance to the center of axes matters.
So here you've got some examples for
instance, this is the Tableau 10 color
palette and this is a Tableau 20 color
palette, on the right you've got the old
ones, the ones that you had in Tableau
9, on the left you've got the new ones.
If you read through this in a bit more
detail you'll see how exactly they come
up with this color palette and why it's
a bit different to the previous one
how what the advantages are and how
these colors make for a better
experience when users are looking at
them. So a bit more on all of this here
and personal when I read about when I
before I read about this I thought I
can't, changing colors in that much of a
big deal but in reality putting a lot of
effort and it's very very thought
through and even the color palette, it is
now more adjusted to people with some
sort of color sight deficiencies. So you
might be presenting to somebody who is
not, cannot see the different colors as
well as you can and therefore just
having
this default color palette account for
that is already a great advantage, so
definitely if you're really
visualizations and wants to make the most out
of your visualizations through colors,
this is a definitely a good read
just have a look at it if you just maybe
google the title, how we design the new
color palette in Tableau 10 you can get
some valuable insights from here that
might help you build your visualizations
in a bit of a better way and also
another new feature that I really like
is the new font. So Tableau developed a,
well they call it, typeface and they design it for
data and here you can also read
about who they partnered with to create
it and how it is different to the other
fonts so previously they used what did
they use before? It was Verdana or
something, I don't know, Helvetica. They used
Helvetica before but now they've created
their own font and that's a huge step
ahead as well and also they explained how
its adjusted to different types of data
sets and also doesn't have just bold and
normal and actually has six types of
weight. This font and talks also about
some powerful basics of some of the
powerful advantages of having this font
over using some other fonts and when you do
create workbooks now you can kind of see
that you don't have that problem of when
something is very small you can't really
see it or the letters start to blur or
over a lot when they all overlap each
other it's, it's very hard to read. This
font personally I find it much better
than the previous one. So if you want
some more insight into that then just
check out this article. Tableau 10
includes a new typeface designed for
data. So there we go so just some
quick overviews of some design related
updates in a Tableau colors and the font.
And that's all for today, I look forward
to seeing you next time. Until then, Happy analyzing!